---
title: 'Test Post'
description: Lessons I have learned so far while building this site.
date: '2025-04-4'
modified_date: '2022-07-21'
image: /assets/images/posts/2/main.jpg
---

I wanted to take a little time today to put together a blog post about some of the lessons I've learned so far while building this site. I started building this with knowledge of AngularJS, PHP, general JS, and more as I've been a web developer for around 10 years now. However, my react and typescript knowledge was lacking. I'd interacted with both before, but only to make changes to existing code. So, I started up this site as a way to learn more about both.

# Typescript
One of the first things I ran into was just my general lack of knowledge on Typescript. I tried to start with a Typescript / React boilerplate, but the lack of Typescript knowledge made it almost impossible to move forward on some things. I ended up taking a short course on youtube called "No BS TS". It helped an insane amount, and I quickly picked up most of the basics.

It didn't take long for me to see how useful it would be in all future projects I work on. I think that if you're starting a project now days, this is 100% what you should be using. It helps prevent errors and makes development easier for future developers.

I can't say I'm an expert yet, as you'll still find areas in my code where I wasn't completely sure how to go about typing something. But most areas I've done my best, and it's paid back the time I spent tenfold.

# API Issues
I ran into several issues trying to implement IGDB, Twitch, and my own API endpoints. First and foremost, I did not take into account the fact that react will update components often and depending on where you have an API call it could cause the endpoint to be hit multiple times. This was solved by rewriting a lot of components so that they only hit an API when absolutely needed.

I also ran into issues due to the nature of running a static site generator. I had to be careful where I placed API calls so that when the static pages were generated, I didn't hit the API for each of them resulting in 500+ API calls in a short period of time. Instead, these API calls needed to be moved so that the page would fire them when loaded instead of when they were generated.

# Caching API Calls
I found that there were instances where I'd need to cache data that I retrieved from an API endpoint. After all, I don't want to check to see if a Twitch channel is live every time someone hits the page. That could potentially cause the site to run into API issues and limitations. But, I also don't have a database since the entire site is static. I got around this by generating and saving data to JSON files that are stored on the server. Each time a bit of data is saved, a timestamp is saved along with it. That way I can check to see when the data was last pulled and decide if I want to use what is saved in the JSON file or if I need to make a new API call.

# Tailwind CSS
Tailwind is a new CSS framework I have seen all over the place, but I've never used. Since the next version of Firebot will be using it, I wanted to get familiar with it. So, I opted to use it instead of something like bootstrap. Turns out, I love it and thing it works really well with react components. CSS can be added right in the react component using reusable classes. It cuts down on the amount of css needed, especially repeated CSS that devs may not know they're rewriting when a CSS file starts to get big.

# In Closing...
This project has been amazing to work with so far. I've learned a TON. I always recommend that if you're wanting to learn some sort of development tools, the best way to go about it is to build a project you're interested in. Tutorials are great, but you'll never learn something as well as you would if you got your hands dirty. Get into a project, learn lessons, cause problems and issues, figure things out by doing.